DOCS-12254-dw-pluck-function-example-kt (#73)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-cookbook-pluck.adoc

> = Extract Key/Value Pairs with Pluck Function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Extract Key-Value Pairs with the `pluck` Function
```

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: studio, anypoint, transform, transformer, format, dataweave, data weave, output structure, mime type, mime

> The following Mule app example shows how to use the DataWeave `pluck` function to extract key/value pairs from a JSON payload and store them into flow variables with variable name as the keys and their corresponding values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Mule app example shows how to use the DataWeave `pluck` function to extract key-value pairs from a JSON payload and store them into Mule event variables with variable names as the keys and their corresponding values.
```

Reviewer: We don't use the term "flow variable" in Mule 4 as far as I know. Could also be "store into a Mule variable" or something like that.

The Mule app consists of:

* A Scheduler component that triggers the flow
* A Set Payload component that sets the JSON payload

> * A Transform Message component that transforms the content read from the Set Payload component by extracting the key/value pairs with the `pluck` function and put them into an array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Transform Message component that transforms the content read from the Set Payload component by extracting the key-value pairs with the `pluck` function and putting them into an array
```

> * A For Each scope component that iterates the array payload content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A For Each scope component that iterates over the array
```

> * A Set Variable component that sets the flow variable name as the Key and variable value as the Value in the JSON array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Set Variable component that sets the variable name as the Key and variable value as the Value in the JSON array
```

		<ee:transform > //<1>
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---

payload pluck (value,key)  -> {
	Test:{
		Key: key,
		Value: value
	}
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<foreach collection="#[payload.Test]"> //<2>
			<logger level="INFO" message="#[payload]" />
			<set-variable value="#[payload.Value]" variableName="#[payload.Key]"/>
			<logger level="INFO" message="#[vars.id]"/>
		</foreach>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

<1>  Note that the Transform Message configures the following DataWeave script:

[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---

payload pluck (value,key)  -> {
Test:{
Key: key,
Value: value
}
----

When the the Mule app executes with the following JSON payload:

[source,json,linenums]
----
{"firstName": "jason", "job": "engineer", "dept":"support"}
----

The DataWeave transformation result is:

[source,json,linenums]
----
[
  {
    "Test": {
      "Key": "firstName",
      "Value": "jason"
    }
  },
  {
    "Test": {
      "Key": "job",
      "Value": "engineer"
    }
  },
  {
    "Test": {
      "Key": "dept",
      "Value": "support"
    }
  }
]
----

> Then, the For Each scope component iterates over the transformed values and the app logs the values of the variable results:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The For Each scope component iterates over the transformed values, and the app logs the values of the variable results, as follows:
```
